[MUSIC]
>> Alexis: We have the ability to look for
elements by themselves in the DOM.
We have the ability to look for
elements within those elements in the DOM.
And then modify either collection
to our choosing, which is really,
really nice, but
there's a lot of situations.
Let's say we're gonna build a tab's
widget like we are later today.
We probably wanna modify some other
element based on your location in the DOM.
Maybe you wanna find an element
that's next to you or
you're wrapped within an element,
you want to find that parent element.
There's a bunch of different ways.
A bunch of different properties we have
at our disposal to make this possible.
We're all gonna cover
this in our traversals.
So let's take a look at our
little dummy set of DOM here.
We have a basic unordered
list with some items.
But let's assume right now we're our
elements that we care
about is this li in red.
This is the one we
currently have access to.
Maybe we've done some
kind of query selector or
wrapped this in a jQuery object already.
And based on this location,
we want to find other elements in the DOM.
This is what we have access to.
So we have a childNodes property.
We've seen a little bit of this when
we're building our text helper.
This is gonna give us access to
all the nodes within this li.
We have firstChild, which will
give us just the, that's strange.
Why has it become black on the projector?
>> Alexis: Let's reload that animation.
There you go.
We have the firstChild,
which will just give us the absolute
firstChild node we have.
We have lastChild, which will give
us the last node in our children.
We have nextSibling.
So for this next li, the next DOM node
following it would be this bottom li.
This will be available via nextSibling.
previousSibling, which will
give us the prior DOM node.
We have parentsNode, which will give
us our wrapping or containing elements.
And then we also have children.
And we see if I can, here we go.
Children is really, really nice.
It's gonna give you all
the childNodes without text nodes.
This is a fairly recent
addition to JavaScript.
A lot of times when you're manipulating,
let's say you have an unordered list.
Maybe it's a fancy hover menu
drop down kind of thing.
You wanna manipulate your
child in some state and
you don't really care about
manipulating the text nodes.
So up until now we've had
to filter out text nodes.
But with the new children property,
the browser will just give this to you.
This will give us all childNodes all
the child DOM nodes, make sense?
Okay, so
we're about to build a few helpers.
Specifically, we're gonna build the next
helper based on our current position.
We're gonna try to grab
the next element in the DOM,
our nextSibling element in the DOM.
But we still want that same chain ability.
There's a couple things we want
to return a jQuerycollection.
Because you don't just want the next
elements for academic reasons,
you probably want to change its HTML.
Maybe you want to add some
text to that element.
If right now, it's an empty li,
you wanna modify it somehow.
So we want this to be possible.
So we're gonna take our
current collection.
I'm gonna walk you through this, so I'll
give you a little bit of pseudocode for
this.
Be able to traverse to using
a nextSibling to get the next node.
Now here's the little gotcha and
this hints down below.
Children is kind of our nice
thing that ignores text nodes.
But nextSibling and, subsequently,
previousSibling as well, do not.
If you hit nextSibling and the next.
Let's say you have a div and
then some text and then another div and
you hit nextSibling.
What jQuery wants to give you is,
you're looking for that div.
They'll skip the text nodes.
nextSibling will not.
It's explicit.
It will give you the next
node of whatever type.
So when we're doing this helper,
we wanna be able to check for that.
So let's write this out.
Let's write part of this out.
We'll scroll down to our next,
okay?
>> Alexis: So
the first thing,
>> Alexis: We're gonna need to do.
We have to do something similar here.
Because if you have a bunch of divs on
the page and you want to say dollar.
You wanna do something like this,
$('div').next().
This is gonna return an array,
a collection of elements.
Because there could be many divs and
you're gonna get the nextSibling of each
one of those divs and
return that as a collection.
So to make this possible,
we're gonna need our
accumulator once again,
our accumulator array.
This is where we're gonna store
all the elements we found
through the course of this function.
And then at the end of this,
we're going to need to return and
an instance of our jQuery library and
pass in our accummlate.
Very similar to what we just did.
We're going to need to
go through each element.
Again, if we found many divs,
we would wanna get the nextSibling for
each element in our collection.
We're gonna need to go through and we're
gonna add things to our accumulator but
only in the specific case.
We want to check or
we can say if elements
is not a text node,
>> Alexis: Add to our accumulator.
>> Alexis: This is the basic set up for
what we wanna do.
Also, excuse me, if this is not
a text node, just add it right then.
We've hit the next div.
We've hit the next li.
This is what we care about.
Throw in the accumulator and
we can move on,
however.
>> Alexis: If it is
a text node, If element is a text
node,
>> Alexis: Is
there anyone who what we
wanna do in the scenario?
What if we have a div and
some text and then another div?
When we say the first div.next,
we wanna get that last a div,
how do we get there?
>> Alexis: Does anyone know?
Anyone think of what we might wanna do?
nextSibling will give us the text.
So we really probably wanna do is
call our element .nextSibling,
.nextSibling, .nextSibling.
Let's say forever until we
get to that actual next node.
But we can't do that directly.
So we probably want to recurse
to next,
>> Alexis: Node.
We wanna keep moving down our nextSibling
chain until we hit a node that
is a DOM node.
>> Alexis: And
there is one last case that we should
handle, what if nothing is found?
What if we're at the last
element on the page or
the last element in our parent and
we say nextSibling.
What should we return?
>> Alexis: In jQuery's case,
it'll return an empty collection.
So we should handle something like this,
too.
If no element Is found.
If we recursed and
we're at the end of our chain and
nextSibling is null then,
>> Alexis: Return empty the clipboard.
Just don't add any, rather,
don't add anything, do nothing.
Because we won't add anything
to our accumulator in this case.
And then our constructor will
take care of our empty array
because accumulator will be empty.
Does this all makes sense,
>> Alexis: Without giving too much away?
>> Alexis: Okay, let's take,
let's see.
>> Alexis: Let's take ten minutes.
Yes, question?
>> Speaker 2: There's a couple things that
were little bit reboard.
Are we gonna go over DOM eventstoday?
>> Alexis: Yes,
we are going over DOM events
after right after this.
There's gonna be a couple sections and
elements we have to get through,
traversal and then layout.
And then we'll be touching DOM
events towards the end of this.
It will be a nice section for events.
Events are very important,
so we're not leaving that out.
>> Speaker 2: And
the next question was just
about signatures in JavaScript.
Just saying that functions
don't actually have signatures.
It's just helpful to
think of them that way.
Because you can't actually
overload functions in JavaScript.
Is that correct?
>> Alexis: You can't overload
functions in JavaScript.
That's why we have call and
apply being called different things, but
you do have the concept.
You're still creating an API.
So the DOM is gonna give us its API
that we're using internally here.
And even though arguments
could be anything.
You can pass nothing to a function.
You can pass a ton of arguments to
a function that has nothing defined.
So it's not signatures in the strict
sense where it's like a strongly typed
language where.
If it requires two arguments,
you have to give it two arguments.
Not in that sense, but it is in the sense
where you could do a function.length.
I don't know if you guys
have ever done this,
like var foo equals function and
you say foo.length.
That's actually gonna give you the number
of arguments that you have defined
in that function.
Which is kind of a nice
little shortcut if you're
trying to guarantee some length of
arguments or optional arguments.
Or currying, if you're doing any
kind of occurring functions.
So I would say we do
care about signatures,
just not in the strictest
sense of the term.
But there is no method overloading
the JavaScript, that is very true.
Good questions.